The President:
This weekend, as we
celebrate Memorial Day,
families across America will
gather in backyards and front
porches, fire up the barbeque,
kick back with friends,
and spend time with
people they care about.
That's as it should be.
But I also hope
that as you do so,
you take some time to reflect on what Memorial Day is all about;
on why we set this day aside as a time of national remembrance.
It's fitting every day to pay
tribute to the men and women who
wear the uniform of the
United States of America.
Still, there are certain days
that have been set aside for all
of us to do so.
Veterans Day is one such day -- when we are called to honor
Americans who've fought
under our country's flag.
Our calling on Memorial
Day is different.
On this day, we honor not just
those who've worn this country's
uniform, but the men and women
who've died in its service,
who've laid down their lives
in defense of their fellow
citizens; who've given their
last full measure of devotion to
protect the United
States of America.
These are the men and women
I'll be honoring this weekend,
and I know many of you
are doing the same.
There are any number of reasons
America emerged from its humble
beginnings as a cluster of
colonies to become the most
prosperous, most
powerful nation on earth.
There is the hard
work, the resilience,
the character of our people; there is the ingenuity and
enterprising spirit of our entrepreneurs and innovators.
There are the ideals of
opportunity, equality,
and freedom that have not only
inspired our people to perfect
our own union, but inspired others to perfect theirs as well.
But from the very start,
there was something more.
A steadfast commitment to serve,
to fight, and if necessary,
to die, to preserve America and
advance the ideals we cherish.
It's a commitment witnessed at
each defining moment along the
journey of this country.
It's what led a rag-tag militia
to face British soldiers at
Lexington and Concord.
It's what led young men, in a
country divided half slave and
half free, to take up
arms to save our union.
It's what led patriots in each
generation to sacrifice their
own lives to secure
the life of our nation,
from the trenches of World War I
to the battles of World War II,
from Inchon and Khe Sanh,
to Mosul and Marjah.
That commitment -- that willingness to lay down their
lives so we might inherit the blessings of this nation --
is what we honor today.
But on this Memorial
Day, as on every day,
we're called to honor their
ultimate sacrifice with more than words.
We're called to honor
them with deeds.
We're called to honor them by
doing our part for the loved
ones our fallen heroes
have left behind --
looking after our
military families.
By making sure the men and women
serving this country around the
world have the support they need
to achieve their mission and
come home safely.
By making sure veterans have the
care and assistance they need.
In short, by serving all those
who have ever worn the uniform
of this country --
and their families --
as well as they have served us.
On April 25, 1866, about a year
after the Civil War ended,
a group of women visited
a cemetery in Columbus
Mississippi, to place flowers
by the graves of Confederate
soldiers who had
fallen at Shiloh.
As they did, they noticed
other graves nearby,
belonging to Union dead.
But no one had come
to visit those graves,
or place a flower there.
So they decided to lay a few
stems for those men too,
in recognition not of a fallen
Confederate or a fallen Union
soldier, but a fallen American.
A few years later, an
organization of Civil War
veterans established
what became Memorial Day,
selecting a date that coincided
with the time when flowers were in bloom.
So this weekend, as we
commemorate Memorial Day,
I ask you to hold all our
fallen heroes in your hearts,
and if you can, lay a flower
where they've come to rest.